---
layout: post
title: Easy-Port
author: Kenton Varda
authorUrl: https://github.com/kentonv
---

### Port your app to Sandstorm in five minutes!

Sandstorm employs a native-code sandbox. App servers may be written using any
technology stack that runs on Linux. The app provides all of its own libraries;
all Sandstorm provides is a filesystem and HTTP routing.

Up until now, porting apps to Sandstorm was a rather tedious process involving
carefully figuring out dependencies and building a chroot environment. But now,
we've written a tool that automates the process. It's so easy that if you have
a traditional web app server already running on your Linux machine, you can
probably turn it into a Sandstorm app package in five minutes or less.

The trick is actually quite simple: we run your app in a special version of
the Sandstorm sandbox running on top of a FUSE filesystem that detects exactly
what files your app tries to open, satisfies those dependencies just-in-time,
and then makes a list so that you can build a package later. By default, the
tool just pulls binaries and libraries from your local system. Just make sure
to test all of your app's features in dev mode, and you should have a complete
package.

[Check out the porting guide for details.](https://github.com/kentonv/sandstorm/wiki/Porting-Guide)

### Wait, what about reproducible builds?

Glad you asked. Obviously, pulling whatever happens to be installed on your own
machine into a package is a huge hack. A serious project will probably want to
do something more hermetic and reproducible. Sandstorm supports that just fine.
You can configure excatly where the dev tool looks for dependencies; it doesn't
have to be your own root directory. So, set up a chroot environment in whatever
way suits you, and point it at that.

You could, for example, use [Docker](https://docker.io). Once you've set up an
appropriate Docker container for your app, point the Sandstorm dev tool at it
and build a package. But it's also possible to use the package management
systems of various Linux distros directly. We didn't want to constrain you to
any one toolchain, because we know everyone has different tastes.

### Speaking of Docker

Many people have asked how Sandstorm is different from Docker. The answer is in
the user interface. Docker is essentially a set of command-line tools for
building chroot environments and deploying them. It is meant to be used by
developers and sysadmins, to deploy software that might have any arbitrary
number of users or, indeed, not be user-oriented at all. Docker is awesome at
what it does, but what it does is actually not at all the same thing as what
Sandstorm does.

In contrast, Sandstorm is a user interface for a personal cloud server. It is
perfectly possible for a non-technical end user to install new apps to their
Sandstorm instance and use them. Moreover, Sandstorm provides and integrated
login and sharing model, so that individual apps do not have to implement this
themselves. The Sandstorm platform sits between the user and the app, so when
an HTTP request arrives at the app, it is already annotated with information about the
user's identity and permissions as authenticated by the platform. Eventually, Sandstorm aims to provide a user
interface that allows end users to connect their apps to each other and to
other users' app securely through an intuitive UI -- think OAuth, except
streamlined because all the apps already share an authentication system.
Meanwhile, until two app instances have been connected by the user, they are
completely isolated from each other, so that you need not worry that one
insecure app might compromise your whole server.
