---
layout: post
title: "May changelog - what's new in Sandstorm"
author: Asheesh Laroia
authorUrl: https://github.com/paulproteus
---

This month features a big change: when you delete grains, they are sent to a "Trash" area, where
they are held for 30 days before being deleted permanently. I personally have clicked "Delete" on
the wrong grain by accident, so I'm very happy with the new feature! This way, I can undo it.

Here's the full changelog. As always, you can visit your Sandstorm server and find the changelog
under the "About Sandstorm" section.

### v0.164 (2016-05-20)
- Self-hosting: The admin settings UI has been completely revamped.
- Fixed grain debug log auto-scrolling.
- Sandcats: Fixed obscure ASN.1 type issue in CSRs that was causing Globalsign API to complain.
- Fixed bug where logging in via Google or Github while viewing a sharing link which you had already redeemed previously would lead to an error.

### v0.163 (2016-05-15) [bugfixes]
- Fixed subtle bug introduced in 0.162 which caused shared grains to refresh every minute.

### v0.162 (2016-05-14)
- Implemented "trash". Deleted grains go to the trash where they can be recovered for up to 30 days.
- Grains can now be deleted from the grain list, without opening them first. Multiple grains can be selected for deletion at once.
- An app can now request that the "who has access" dialog be displayed.
- Fixed bug where after an upload failed, future uploads would show the same error despite not having failed.
- Tweaked the "logout other sessions" button to give better feedback that the request is in-progress.
- When visiting a Sandstorm server that hasn't been set up yet, you'll now be redirected to the setup wizard.
- The API endpoint now allows the authorization token to be specified as part of the path, for cases where setting the `Authorization` header is not possible (especially cross-origin WebSocket).