---
layout: post
title: "June changelog - what's new in Sandstorm"
author: Asheesh Laroia
authorUrl: https://github.com/paulproteus
---

June's big change is that we've reworked what first-time users see when using Sandstorm. There are
speech bubbles guiding them to install an app, create a grain, and to take a look at the "Share
access" interface, all powered by [intro.js](http://introjs.com/). I'm hopeful this helps people
become productive and comfortable with Sandstorm faster than before.

It applies to all users, including demo users, so test it out by opening
[demo.sandstorm.io](https://demo.sandstorm.io/) in an incognito window and click Try a quick demo.

Some readers will appreciate that this month, we also chased down a subtle memory leak caused by a
lack of flow control in the HTTP implementation spread across proxy.js and
sandstorm-http-bridge. You'll find the details in [pull request
#2056.](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm/pull/2056/files)

Read the full changelog here, or visit your own Sandstorm server's "About Sandstorm" section for a
changelog at any time.

### v0.169 (2016-06-26) [bugfixes]
- Fixed regression in static web publishing that caused requests that should have returned 404s or redirect-to-add-trailing-slash to instead return a 500 status with a blank page.
- Added ability for admin to request a heapdump (to debug memory leaks).

### v0.168 (2016-06-24) [bugfixes]
- Sandstorm for Work: SAML connector should now work with Active Directory.
- Fixed various subtle resource leaks in Sandstorm front-end and sandstorm-http-bridge.
- Fixed random crash/hang bug introduced in sandstorm-http-bridge v0.166. Apps build since that time will need to be rebuilt.
- The old admin interface has been completely removed (the new admin interface has been the default since v0.164).
- The email configuration test dialog now shows more informative error messages.
- The "most-used" apps row is now only shown if you have more than 6 apps, without which it isn't helping.
- Added "guided tour" hint highlighting the "share access" button.
- Added explanatory text to admin user invite page.
- Fixed search bar autofocus on app list page.
- The question mark info button on Grains page was supposed to have a circle around it.

### v0.167 (2016-06-18) [bugfixes]
- Updated to Meteor 1.3.3.1.
- Implemented hard flow control at the Cap'n Proto layer so that an errant (or malicious) app cannot cause excessive memory use elsewhere in the system by making excessive simultaneous calls. This should improve the stability of Oasis.
- Implemented flow control for uploads to an app (though it rarely comes into play unless running Sandstorm locally).
- Fixed that after losing internet connectivity for a while (or suspending your laptop) and then coming back, grains would refresh.
- Fixed some memory leaks in shell server.
- Added more "guided tour" points to help new users learn Sandstorm.
- Sandstorm for Work: SAML connector now exports XML auto-configuration blob.
- Sandstorm for Work: Improved UI around feature keys.

### v0.166 (2016-06-11) [bugfixes]
- Implemented flow control for large file downloads from apps so that they don't buffer in the front-end consuming excessive RAM. Apps that handle large files will need to re-pack using the latest sandstorm-http-bridge and push an update.
- Sandstorm for Work: Made SAML entity ID configurable; added more setup instructions.
- Updated Google login setup instructions to match latest gratuitous UI changes.

### v0.165 (2016-06-04) [bugfixes]
- Re-enabled websocket self-check under new admin UI.
